Apple Unveils New Macintosh Computers:
Macintosh Portable and Macintosh IIci
 
UNIVERSAL CITY, California—September 20, 1989—Apple Computer, Inc. today added
portability and even more power to its Macintosh product family by announcing
the Macintosh Portable and the Macintosh IIci.  The Macintosh Portable is a
full-function Macintosh in a portable design.  The Macintosh IIci is a
high-performance version of Apple's popular Macintosh IIcx.  Running at 25 MHz
and offering new capabilities such as built-in video, the Macintosh IIci is the
most powerful Macintosh that Apple has ever developed.
     "With this announcement, Macintosh becomes the only comprehensive product
family in the industry to offer users consistent personal computing," said
Jean-Louis Gassée, president of Apple Products.  "This means all Macintosh
customers have a sweeping range of hardware and application choices—and they're
all based on a single, unified software architecture.  Perhaps most important,
it means that more and more people can find a Macintosh to fit their individual
needs."
 
 
Macintosh Portable
 
     The Portable incorporates all traditional Macintosh benefits into a system
that customers can take with them. Notably, the Portable features advanced
screen technology, sophisticated power management, all-in-one design, and
complete Macintosh compatibility.
     "When we started developing the Macintosh Portable, we set two design
challenges:  First, it had to be a complete Macintosh;  Second, it had to be
truly portable." said Gassée.  "This meant no compromises.  And it required
integrating innovative display and power technologies. Our new Portable meets
those design criteria:  it's a Macintosh through and through.  Now our
customers can have Macintosh personal computing anywhere."
 
Advanced screen technology
 
     The Portable uses state-of-the-art Active Matrix Liquid Crystal Display
technology to achieve the superior graphic capabilities of the Macintosh.  This
technology enables the Portable to depict the Macintosh graphical user
interface, as well as sophisticated graphics, text, and animation with a fast
response time, high contrast, and wide viewing angle.  The Portable's display
size is 640-by-400 pixels, which is 50 percent larger than a Macintosh SE
screen and as wide as a letter-size page.
     The system also features a video output port.  This port can be used with
an adapter to drive external monitors, projection video systems or overhead
viewplates.
 
 
Portability
 
     Macintosh portability is achieved through sophisticated power management
circuitry and an all-in-one design.  The system's power management components
include:
 
-  Motorola CMOS 68000:  Apple chose the CMOS (complementary metal oxide
silicon) 68000 microprocessor from the same Motorola family of micro-
processors as those found in all Macintosh personal computers.  The CMOS 68000
requires 80 percent less power than standard technology chips.  It runs at 16
MHz, providing roughly twice the performance of the Macintosh SE.
 
-  Low-power-consumption RAM:  The Macintosh Portable contains 1MB of static
RAM, which consumes less power than standard dynamic RAM (DRAM).  It allows
users to work for long periods between battery charges and retains the contents
of memory when the system is in sleep mode.
 
-  Lead acid batteries:  The Portable uses lead acid batteries, which last from
6 to 12 hours (depending on usage and configuration) and can be recharged to
full capacity at any time.  The voltage of a lead acid battery diminishes
gradually as power is used, enabling the computer to provide users with
information about the power level.  A battery Desk Accessory shows a meter that
indicates the charge level left in the battery, much like a fuel gauge.
Messages alert users when power is running low.
 
-  Separate power management microprocessor:  This dedicated microprocessor
monitors the activity of each component of the Portable.  The Power Manager
optimizes power allocation and automatically puts the system into a standby
"rest" mode or into a "sleep" mode if the system has been inactive for a preset
period as specified by the user.  During the rest mode the system operating
speed decreases from 16 MHz to 1 MHz. In the sleep mode the power to most
components is turned off. Memory contents are retained in both rest and sleep
modes. The Portable's Instant-On feature allows customers to wake up the system
by simply pressing any key on the keyboard.
 
 
The following features comprise the system's all-in-one design:
 
-  Integrated pointing devices:  The system's integrated trackball and
full-size keyboard make it easier for customers to set-up, pack-up, configure
and use.  The system's trackball can be positioned for left- or right-handed
users.  It can also be replaced by a numeric keypad.  The Portable can also be
used with a low-power mouse that is included with the system.
 
-  Rugged design:  The Macintosh Portable is constructed to withstand the bumps
and bangs of everyday use.  It is made of rugged polycarbonate plastic, a
material also used in motorcycle helmets.  SuperDrive floppy disk drive and the
optional 40MB hard disk are specially designed to ensure durability.
 
-  System expansion:  The Portable has expansion connectors for additional RAM
and ROM.  It also has a connector for an internal modem.  Apple today also
introduced the Macintosh Portable Data Modem 2400, a 2400-baud internal modem
that facilitates communication with other personal computers, minicomputers and
mainframes, while maintaining low-power consumption. The Portable's Processor
Direct Slot (PDS) is a high-performance slot connected to the microprocessor
bus that will support an expansion card.  It allows third-party developers to
create add-on products to extend the capabilities of the Portable.
 
It's a Macintosh
 
     The new Portable achieves compatibility with Macintosh hardware and
software by integrating the following features:
 
-  Macintosh software compatibility:  The Portable works with the same
thousands of powerful, easy-to-learn software products that have been written
for all other Macintosh computers.  The Portable uses Macintosh system software
version 6.0.4.  This is a hardware-support upgrade and is compatible with
previous releases of Macintosh system software.
 
-  Optional 40MB hard disk:  This special low-power internal hard disk is
factory-installed with System 6.0.4 and HyperCard 1.2.5, further simplifying
setup for the user.
 
-  SuperDrive:  The Portable includes the 1.4MB SuperDrive, which provides 75
percent more storage capacity than 800K drives, and reads, writes, and formats
Macintosh, OS/2, MS-DOS, and ProDOS disks.
 
-  Standard Macintosh ports:  Seven external ports accommodate peripherals such
as hard disks, printers and input devices.  The Portable's serial ports provide
LocalTalk support, which allows the Portable to connect to a LocalTalk network
and take advantage of AppleTalk Network services such as AppleShare servers,
LaserWriter printers and other devices.
 
-  Apple Stereo Sound capability:  The Portable features the same high-quality
digital sound capabilities as found in the Macintosh modular line and in the
SE/30.
 
     The Macintosh Portable comes standard with 1MB of RAM and SuperDrive and
weighs 15.7 pounds with the battery and optional 40MB hard disk.  Without the
hard disk, the Portable weighs 13.7 pounds.  It also features an optional
mouse, handy pocket reference guide and durable carrying case.
 
Related products
     Apple is also offering several other related products and accessories for
the Portable, including the Macintosh Portable Data Modem 2400, Rechargeable
Battery, Battery Charger, Numeric Keypad Module, and 1MB Memory Expansion Kit.
Also available from Apple are the Macintosh Portable Internal SuperDrive and
Internal 40SC Hard Disk.  Apple plans to announce the availability of the
Macintosh Portable Video Adapter at a later date.
     Apple expects the Portable to appeal to a broad range of customers across
all application areas.
 
Macintosh IIci
     The new Macintosh IIci is the highest performance personal computer that
Apple has ever shipped.  It delivers up to a 55 percent performance increase,
when compared to the Macintosh IIcx and IIx.  Additionally, it offers new
capabilities—such as built-in video—and incorporates the same flexible design
and hardware features as the popular Macintosh IIcx.
     "We define performance in human terms," said Gassée. "A truly powerful
system is responsive, makes people better at what they do and is enduring.  As
the Macintosh IIci demonstrates, real performance doesn't come from just raw
processing power.  It comes from the balanced integration of hardware,
peripherals, system software and the human interface. "
 
Performance
     The Macintosh IIci computer's higher performance derives from a balanced
system design, which features a faster microprocessor and performance
enhancements that optimize the microprocessor's capabilities.  The combination
of these features enables the entire range of Macintosh applications to
calculate, reformat, enlarge, scan, search, resize, scroll, redraw and paint
faster than any Macintosh has ever been able to do before.
     Additionally, the system features a connector for a cache card, which can
further boost the overall throughput of the system.
 
-  Faster clock speed:  Motorola 25 MHz 68030 and 68882. The combination of the
68030 microprocessor and the 68882 floating-point coprocessor running at 25 MHz
represents the most significant new feature of the Macintosh IIci. (The
Macintosh IIcx and IIx run at 16 MHz.)
 
-  Burst-mode RAM access:  The burst-mode RAM access capability of the 68030
allows the microprocessor to read blocks of memory more efficiently than in
previous architectures.  As a result, the system requires fewer clock cycles to
process groups of instructions, further accelerating the system's performance.
 
-  Faster DRAM:  The system uses 80 nanosecond DRAM to match the increase in
the microprocessor's clock speed and burst-mode RAM access.  Additionally, the
ROM code takes full advantage of the 68030's 256-byte instruction cache.
 
-  RAM cache connector:  The system's built-in cache connector provides users
with the ability to install a cache card that can increase performance by
storing the most-recently accessed data and instructions in a small bank of
high-speed memory.  The microprocessor can read data and instructions from the
cache in fewer clock cycles than it can read from main memory.  A cache card
can improve the performance of a system by up to an additional 30 percent (for
a 75 percent overall increase) in performance, depending on the configuration
and usage.  Apple plans to announce a RAM cache card in early 1990.
 
Built-in video
     The Macintosh IIci computer's built-in video capability lets users connect
a monitor to the system without using a video card.  The built-in video drives
a 640-by-480-pixel screen, such as the AppleColor High-Resolution RGB Monitor
or Apple High-Resolution Monochrome Monitor, at up to 256 colors or gray
levels, or a 640-by-870-pixel screen, such as Apple's Portrait Display, at up
to 16 gray levels. Built-in video for the Macintosh IIci is self-configuring.
Users simply plug in a video cable to the video port. Built-in video also
increases the expansion capabilities of the system by freeing up a NuBus slot.
 
Additional features
 
-   512K of ROM:  The Macintosh IIci features 512K of ROM, which provides
support for the new hardware features (built-in video, burst-mode RAM access,
optional cache) in the Macintosh IIci, and for 32-bit addressing.  When used
with System 7, Apple's next major release of Macintosh system software, the
Macintosh IIci will be able to address up to 4 gigabytes (4 billion bytes) of
memory.  The ROM also includes support for 32-Bit QuickDraw, enabling color
systems to display up to 16 million colors simultaneously with the appropriate
graphics card support.
 
-   IIcx design:  The Macintosh IIci shares the same flexible design as the
Macintosh IIcx.  It has a small footprint, can be set vertically or
horizontally and it is designed for easy serviceability.  It also has the auto-
restart and low noise features of the IIcx.
 
     The hardware features that the Macintosh IIci shares with the IIcx include
three NuBus slots, 1MB to 8MB (up to 32MB with future memory chips), Apple
Stereo Sound capabilities, the internal SuperDrive and an internal 3.5-inch
hard disk.  As with all other 68030-based systems, the microprocessor's
built-in Paged Memory Management Unit (PMMU) can be used with A/UX, Apple's
UNIX system and with future versions of the Macintosh operating system.
 
-   Expansion capabilities:  The system also features the same set of external
ports as the IIcx, and includes a video connector to support the built-in
video. Additionally, by using the Macintosh IIci computer's built-in video
capability customers have all three slots available for other cards.
 
     The Macintosh IIci can be configured from 1MB up to 8MB of RAM on the
logic board and accommodates either 40MB or 80MB 3.5-inch, half-height hard
disks from Apple and larger disks from third parties.  The system can also be
preconfigured with A/UX.  Each Macintosh IIci includes a mouse, System Software
6.0.4, HyperCard 1.2.5, SuperDrive, and all documentation.
     Apple believes the Macintosh IIci will appeal to a broad range of users
who want more power.
 
 
Upgrades
 
     Macintosh IIcx customers can upgrade their systems with a Macintosh IIci
Logic Board Upgrade Kit that consists of the logic board, as well as a bottom
case to accommodate the video connector.  The Logic Board Upgrade Kit is
scheduled for release later this year.
     Macintosh IIci-specific DRAM kits in 1MB and 4MB configurations are
available immediately for IIci customers who want to upgrade their systems.
 
 
Price and availability
 
     The Macintosh Portable and Macintosh IIci are available immediately
through all authorized Apple certified dealers and VARs.
 
     Suggested retail prices for the Macintosh Portable and peripherals:
 
Macintosh Portable w/1MB RAM/SuperDrive                  $5,799
Macintosh Portable w/1MB RAM/40MB Hard Disk/SuperDrive   $6,499
Macintosh Portable Data Modem 2400                         $449
Macintosh Portable 1MB Memory Expansion Kit                $649
Macintosh Portable Rechargeable Battery                     $49
Macintosh Portable Battery Recharger                       $129
Macintosh Portable Numeric Keypad Module                    $69
Macintosh Portable SuperDrive Upgrade                      $499
Macintosh Portable Internal 40SC Hard Disk               $1,199
 
     Suggested retails prices for typical Macintosh IIci configurations:
 
Macintosh IIci w/1MB RAM/SuperDrive                      $6,269
Macintosh IIci w/1MB RAM/40MB Hard Disk                  $6,969
Macintosh IIci w/4MB RAM/80MB Hard Disk                  $8,669
Macintosh IIci w/4MB RAM/80MB Hard Disk (A/UX installed) $9,152
Macintosh IIci Logic Board Upgrade Kit                   $2,399
DRAM upgrade kits                       1MB: $499; 4MB:  $1,999
 
     Keyboards for the Macintosh IIci and all other peripherals are sold
separately.
 
  
 
Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, HyperCard, ProDOS, AppleTalk, AppleShare,
LaserWriter and A/UX are registered trademarks of Apple Computer, Inc.
SuperDrive, LocalTalk, AppleColor and QuickDraw are trademarks of Apple
Computer, Inc.
NuBus is a trademark of Texas Instruments.
UNIX is a registered trademark of AT&T.
