APPLE ANNOUNCES NEW VERSATILE MACINTOSH IIcx WITH 68030 PERFORMANCE IN A
SMALL-SIZED MODULAR DESIGN
 
San Francisco, California.  March 7,1989.  Apple Computer, Inc. today
introduced the newest member of its expanding, compatible Macintosh(R)
personal computer family - the Macintosh IIcx.  The versatile IIcx features
68030 performance, three NuBus(TM) expansion slots and a small, modular
design.
 
The Macintosh IIcx is the third new Macintosh announced in the past six
months that features full 32-bit 68030 and 68882 microprocessors and Apple's
unique SuperDrive, which allows users to easily access non-Macintosh disks.
The IIcx system's performance and expandability, plus its small footprint --
about the size of a typewriter - make it an adaptable system that will appeal
to many of the different markets that Apple serves.
 
The feature that distinguishes the Macintosh IIcx from the Macintosh II and
IIx, is its unique flexible product design.  Its small footprint takes up
less space on the desk, and its mounting flexibility - base, side or from a
mounting bracket - helps it fit into any work environment.
 
In addition, the new IIcx is easy to service and configure.  Users can
disassemble the entire system after removing a single screw, making it simple
to reach critical components such as RAM, ROM and disk drives.
 
As with all members of the Macintosh product family, the IIcx was designed
to use the same software architecture.  This allows customers to use the same
applications and data files on any Macintosh model.
 
In addition, like other members of the modular Macintosh product family,
the IIcx shares important features such as color QuickDraw(TM), NuBus
architecture, stereo sound capabilities and an optional internal 3.5-inch
half-height hard disk.  And, like the Macintosh IIx and compact Macintosh
SE/30, the IIcx features a 68030 microprocessor, a 68882 math coprocessor and
a 1.4MB SuperDrive (FDHD(TM) - Floppy Drive High Density) - a 3.5-inch floppy
disk drive that can read and write to non-Macintosh formats, and the ability
to use ROM SIMMs.
  
A new capability introduced with Macintosh IIcx is auto-restart, which allows
the system to restart itself in the event of a power outage.
 
"The Macintosh IIcx is important for Apple because it combines the flexibility
of our open architecture systems with a small size," said Jean-Louis Gassee,
president of Apple Products.  "With this combination of features, we expect
the Macintosh IIcx to have very broad appeal.
 
"Together with the Macintosh II and IIx, the IIcx strengthens the product
line and extends the range of options for users who are interested in
considering modular Macintosh systems," he added.
 
Technical Specifications
 
The Macintosh IIcx system's 68030 runs at 16MHz, as does its 80-bit precision
68882 math coprocessor.  The 68030 has separate 256-byte caches for data and
instructions, plus a built-in Page Memory Management Unit (PMMU) used by
advanced multitasking operating systems such as A/UX(R), Apple's UNIX(R)
system.
 
Three high-performance NuBus slots allow easy expansion.  Virtually all
32-bit expansion cards designed for the Macintosh II and IIx are immediately
compatible.  NuBus expansion cards are currently available for external
monitors, networking, host connectivity, memory and a variety of specialized
coprocessing applications.
 
The industry-standard NuBus structure allows fast transfer of large quantities
of data between add-on cards and the logic board.  NuBus features fair
arbitration and geographical addressing.  These characteristics let the add-on
cards "identify" themselves so, unlike other computers,  there is no need to
set switches to configure a system.  Because NuBus cards can be placed in any
slot, there is exceptional flexibility and ease associated with system
configuration.  In addition, through NuBus, coprocessor boards can take over
the capabilities of the system to focus on specialized tasks.
 
The IIcx is compatible with Macintosh II and IIx software, and the
high-capacity SuperDrive works with Apple File Exchange to make the new system
compatible in a multivendor environment; able to read and write MS-DOS files
effortlessly.  The logic board features 256K ROMs.  In addition, there is a
slot for future ROM SIMMs (Single In-line Memory Modules) making future
expansion or service easy.
 
The Macintosh IIcx can be configured with 1MB to 8MB of RAM on the logic
board (using 1MB SIMMs).  In addition to the usual complement of Macintosh
ports (two  RS232/422, two ADB(TM) [Apple Desktop Bus], SCSI and a stereo
audio port), the IIcx features an external floppy disk drive port.  Besides the
built-in SuperDrive, the system can accommodate either 40MB or 80MB 3.5-inch
half-height hard disks.
 
"This new, extremely versatile Macintosh provides a platform that is easily
configured for a wide range of uses ," said Allan Loren, president of Apple
USA.  "We believe it is sized and priced to work across the entire line
of applications and should put it into a core position for our business and
higher education customers."
 
Price and availability
 
Each Macintosh IIcx includes a mouse, System Software 6.0.3 (includes Apple
File Exchange), HyperCard(R) software, all documentation and SuperDrive.
Keyboard and other peripherals are sold separately.
 
Suggested retail prices for typical configurations:
 
1MB RAM/SuperDrive (FDHD)                  $4,669
1MB RAM/40MB Hard Disk                     $5,369
4MB RAM/80MB Hard Disk.                    $7,069
4MB RAM/80MB Hard Disk(A/UX installed)     $7,552
 
Macintosh IIcx systems are available today at Apple resellers worldwide.
 
Apple, the Apple logo, Macintosh, A/UX and HyperCard are registered trademarks
of Apple Computer, Inc.  QuickDraw, FDHD and ADB are trademarks of Apple
Computer, Inc.  UNIX is registered trademark of AT&T Information Systems.
NuBus is a trademark of Texas Instruments.
 
Apple Press Releases
News
 
3-7-89
